{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Coronary heart disease is now the leading cause of death worldwide. \
An estimated 3.8 million men and 3.4 million women die each year from CHD. \
In developed countries heart disease is the leading cause of death in men and women.\
\
Prevalence of CHD:\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}was around twice as high among men (3.8%) as women (1.9%).\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}
\fs24 increased rapidly with age\'97around 12 times as high in people aged 75 and over as in those aged 45\'9654 (13.9% and 1.1%, respectively).\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In 2017, an estimated 59,100 people aged 25 and over had an acute coronary event in the form of a heart attack or unstable angina\'97around 162 events every day, based on hospitalisations and mortality data. Rates of acute coronary events:\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}were more than twice as high in men than women (433 and 199 per 100,000 population, respectively)\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}
\fs24 declined by 42% between 2007 and 2017 (from 533 to 311 events per 100,000) (Figure 3)\
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs20 {\listtext	\uc0\u9642 	}
\fs24 were 2.6 times as high among Indigenous Australians compared with non-Indigenous Australians (811 and 303 per 100,000, respectively).\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Smoking
\f0\b0 \
Smoking is a major risk factor for CHD. Cigarette smoking promotes atherosclerosis and increases the levels of blood clotting factors such as fibrinogen. Nicotine also accelerates heart rate and raises blood pressure.\
\

\f1\b Diet\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Several aspects of dietary patterns have been linked to the increased risk of CHD. These include diets high in saturated fats and cholesterol, and high salt intake and diets with low fruit and vegetable intake. The World Health Report 2002estimates that approximately 30% of CHD in developed countries is due to fruit and vegetable consumption levels below 600g per day\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Physical inactivity\uc0\u8232 
\f0\b0 It is estimated that physical inactivity increases the risk of heart disease by 50%.\
Physical inactivity also impacts on other risk factors for CHD including obesity, blood pressure, high triglycerides, a low level of HDL and diabetes.}